Harry Maguire stuns Manchester United 

After four straight victories under Claude Puel, Leicester’s bubble had been burst by the surprise home defeat to Crystal Palace last Saturday and the penalty shootout loss to City. Their manager was criticised for starting that game with Vardy and Mahrez on the bench when the competition perhaps represented their best chance of silverware, and Puel reverted to his first choice side for this match.

But it was United who took the game to their opponents in the opening exchanges. Smalling should have done better with a headed chance from Juan Mata’s centre in the third minute, while Lingard and Pogba tested Kasper Schmeichel with early efforts. But after the initial burst, the visitors began to look laboured going forward, with Romelu Lukaku again struggling to make an impact.

Having created virtually nothing beforehand, however, it was a classic piece of counterattacking that helped Leicester go ahead. Lingering around the edge of his own penalty area, the England forward pounced on a clearance and laid the ball into the path of Wilfred Ndidi, whose first-time pass sailed over the United defence and into the path of the onrushing Mahrez. The Algerian was forced to check his run slightly but showed great awareness to pause briefly before laying the ball to Vardy on a plate.

Their joy was short-lived, though, as a canny left-footed finish from just inside the area from Mata after a clever layoff from Lingard meant United headed into the break on level terms. Despite that setback, Leicester persisted with the tactic of sitting deep and attempting to strike out on the break.

The strategy almost paid dividends seven minutes into the second half when more brilliance from Mahrez saw him reach the byline, only for Demarai Gray to miss the ball completely when it was played across the face of goal, with David de Gea saving the follow-up from Christian Fuchs.

Martial partially redeemed himself for the miss when he won a free-kick just outside the penalty area and Mata stepped up to curl home his second goal, although Schmeichel will feel he could have done more to prevent the ball finding the net having presented his opponent with a yawning gap to aim at.

Amartey’s second booking, for a reckless bodycheck on Marcus Rashford less than 20 minutes after he had replaced Danny Simpson, seemed to have ended the game as a contest.

But in the final seconds of injury time, everything fell apart for United. Marc Albrighton’s excellent deep cross picked out the unmarked Maguire at the back post and, having fluffed a great chance earlier, this time the England defender made no mistake, to send United into the Christmas period knowing their hopes of a 21st title are virtually over already.