

Second-half goals from Luis Suarez, Lionel Messi and Aleix Vidal helped Barcelona down 10-men Real Madrid 3-0 in the latest installment of El Clasico on Saturday afternoon at the Estadio Santiago Bernabeu in Madrid.

After an anonymous first-half, the Uruguayan opened the scoring in the 54th minute, and 10 minutes later his South America counterpart stroked home a penalty after Dani Carvajal s sending off. Aleix Vidal would add a late goal to cap Barcelona s third straight league win in the Bernabeu.

Real were decidedly stronger in the first-half, but were unable to make the most of their chances and a flat start to the second-half was all Barcelona needed to put Los Blancos to the sword.

Taking a page from his Spanish SuperCup book, Real manager Zinedine Zidane opted for Mateo Kovacic over Isco in midfield so that the Croatian could individually mark Messi. It was mostly an expected starting XI from Barcelona, with Paulinho the starter of note in midfield.

Real came out with pace and pressure and had Barcelona pegged back in their own area. The visitors were also facing the intense early afternoon sunlight, making things more uncomfortable for them on the pitch.

Messi had barely even touched the ball in the first 15 minutes and Suarez was nowhere to be seen. Barcelona are not accustomed to playing without the ball, but the swarming pressure from Los Blancos any time they touched the ball made for a very unsteady opening stage for the Catalonians.

It wasnt until the half-hour mark that a chance came for Barcelona, with Keylor Navas pushing a Paulinho shot over the crossbar. The Barcelona team that supporters are used to seeing week in week out finally started showing up toward the end of the half, and it was one of their trademark attacks via the left flank through Messi, Andres Iniesta and Jordi Alba that almost led to the opener, with Paulinho the final recipient but Navas saved the near-post header.

The best chance of the first 45 minutes though was for Real minutes before half-time. Like Barcelona, Real had their best chances down the left against the overwhelmed Sergi Roberto and the Bernabeu could sense a goal when Marcelo swung in a cross for Karim Benzema, but the Frenchmans header hit the post.

Ernesto Valverde will be all smiles this Christmas, as this weekend of football could hardly have gone any better for him or for Barcelona.

Not only will round 17 be remembered for their 3-0 victory over Real Madrid at the Estadio Santiago Bernabeu, but the history books will also show that Atletico Madrid and Valencia both lost their respective fixtures 1-0.

Of the title contenders, Diego Simeones side were in action first, but they lost to a Sergio Garcia strike away at Espanyol on Friday night.

Then there was the Saturday lunchtime Clasico, which the Blaugrana won with goals from Luis Suarez, Lionel Messi and Aleix Vidal, leaving Real Madrid 14 points adrift.

That was followed by Valencias clash with Villarreal, in which they Yellow Submarine won with a Carlos Bacca goal.

All of this means Barcelona are nine points ahead of Atletico Madrid, now their nearest challengers.