Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola says Sergio Aguero is a "legend" who will "decide his own future" 
The Cherries had frustrated City until Asmir Begovic s poor clearance led to Fernandinho finding Aguero to nod the home side in front.

Raheem Sterling made it 2-0 at the start of the second half when Aguero deftly flicked the ball over the visitors defence for him to gallop in and slot home.

Aguero added a third with another header, this time from a Silva cross, for Citys 100th league goal of 2017.

Danilo completed the rout with five minutes to go when he ran on to Sterlings pass to score his first goal for the club.

Citys victory extended their lead at the top of the table to 14 points, reduced to 13 after Manchester United s draw at Leicester later on Saturday. Even so, the 13-point margin at Christmas between first and second is an English top-flight record.

Bournemouth, who are now without a win in their past seven league games, slip into the bottom three.

Eddie Howes side were the opposition when City began their winning run back in August - on a sunny day on the south coast, when it took a 97th-minute Sterling goal to defeat them.

Now, 119 days on and with Santa hats in the stands at Etihad Stadium, there is still no stopping Guardiolas side.

They have reached the halfway stage of the season and have dropped only two points, while the teams below them continue to falter.

With only 15 goals scored in their first 19 league matches, Bournemouths attack appears the most obvious area that needs strengthening in January - but it is not the only one.

Bournemouth manager Eddie Howe, speaking to Match of the Day: "It was a tough game against a very good team. It was always going to be difficult to cope with them.

Manchester City are the first English top-flight team to score 100 goals in a calendar year since Liverpool in 1982 (106).
Bournemouth have failed to score in three consecutive Premier 
League games for the first time since January 2016.

City s winning run of 17 games is one more victory than 
Bournemouth have picked up in total in the Premier League since the start of last season.